whenever we yawn we use the muscles in
our mouth and tongue
and the contact can squeeze some of the
saliva-producing glands
as a result we might squirt a tiny
stream of saliva without even noticing
it
but it'll reach out a foot or more i had
a friend in college who could do that at
will
it was impressive it turns out that
saliva
is basically filtered blood blood is
processed
thanks to special glands and special
cells absorb its properties
after that the blood becomes saliva
moving on if your brain were a usb drive
it would be totally insane our brain
capacity is somewhere between
10 and 100 terabytes some scientists
claim the full spectrum
can reach 2.5 petabytes sounds like a
dog snack doesn't it
when the size of the full english
version of wikipedia was calculated back
in 2010
it was only 5.6 terabytes
our body heat can boil a half a gallon
of water in 30 minutes
even when we're idle yeah we should try
that
our brain can perform up to 10
quadrillion
operations per second with 10 watts of
power only
a computer that could do the same would
need about one gigawatt of power
this amount could power up to 300 000
houses
your memory is affected by your body
position for example
you're much more likely to recall a
situation where you wave to someone
if you stand and wave again
your brain has millions of neurons
they're all different
and the speed of connection between them
is different too
that's why you can recall some
information faster than others
our nerve impulses though are super slow
compared to the speed of electricity
neurons can speed up to 275 miles per
hour
even slower than the world's fastest car
still
it's pretty fast because your brain
needs to respond to stuff like
pain or tickles the brain itself
by the way can't feel pain it has no
nerve endings of its own people with red
colored hair
are one percent of all people two
percent are natural blondes
so yeah most people you see with these
hair colors have dyed hair
black is the most common hair color in
the world
hair is not only strong but also elastic
it can stretch about 30 percent of its
length when it's wet the average hair
growth rate is
six inches per year so if you never cut
your hair until you're
say 80 years old your hair will have
grown up to 480 inches
about the height of a four-story
building still
it's not quite possible because our hair
length is programmed genetically
a human eye resembles a car engine both
of them need liquid for
good lubrication the engine needs oil
and the eye
needs tears to make sure the eyes work
right
tears are distributed all over them
that's why we blink more than 10
000 times a day the eye muscle is the
fastest muscle in our bodies
we can blink five times per second and
even more
we spend about six seconds blinking
every minute
during the day we spend thirty minutes
in complete darkness just because we
close the eyes
not even including the time when we
sleep
the only part of the human body that
doesn't get any nutrients from blood
is the cornea of the eye the only thing
it needs to work well are
tears and fluid in front of your eyes
most scientists agree that tears that
appear out of emotion
are a unique human feature no other
animal is capable of crying because of
sadness or joy
the pupils narrow and expand in order to
control the incoming
light if there's a lot of light they
narrow the passage for light
so as to not harm the vision in the dark
the pupils expand to capture as much
light as possible
now back to our mouths the tongue has a
lot of muscles
and some of them can strain only when
you're learning a new language
a human bite almost always becomes
infected
because of all the bacteria that live in
our mouth in this sense
we're quite close to hyenas your bones
are designed to be used a lot
daily and some of them can absorb two or
even three times your body weight
that's impressive but your teeth are
even stronger
when you bite something the teeth can
exert incredible pressure
up to 200 pounds by the way the enamel
is considered to be a part of your
skeletal system
our body is about 60 percent water and
it can be found
even in bones about twenty five percent
of the human bone mass is made of water
hydrochloric acid in our stomach also
known as the most
important defender of the immune system
helps get rid of dangerous food toxins
viruses and bacteria you get with the
food you eat
even the stomach itself can be digested
by this acid
but the mucous membrane protects it
even if you brush your teeth twice a day
and never forget about mouthwash
your mouth still stays one of the
dirtiest parts of the human body
millions of bacteria live inside it the
good news is that
most of these bacteria are good for the
body and protect it from bad bacteria
and viruses
people and giraffes have similar necks
a person has the same amount of neck
vertebrae as a giraffe has
the difference though is about the
length giraffe vertebrae are about
ten inches long our spine can withstand
pressure of up to one
thousand pounds it would withstand an
adult zebra
but please don't try it at home there
are no zebras there after all
when you lie down on your back and
elevate the knees
the pressure on your spine is about 25
pounds
not a zebra for sure but a size cat
our spine is also very flexible if we
could bend it
it could possibly form two-thirds of a
complete circle
are we like snakes then in the morning
you're taller than in the evening
while sleeping you're no longer affected
by the force of gravity
and your spine stretches giving you up
to half an inch in height
too bad you become shorter by daytime
though
a roller coaster actually tosses your
organs around
so when you feel like your stomach's
falling down it's actually flipping
inside your body
you think your fingerprints are the only
unique thing in your body
well they're not your tongue print and
your smell
are also one of a kind if anyone sniffs
you
it's reason enough to get suspicious if
all of your blood vessels were stretched
into a single line
boy that would hurt but it would go
around the earth more than twice
an impressive feat that you wouldn't see
because
well you can't live without your blood
vessels
you think you rest while you're asleep
but in fact
your brain doesn't it's actually more
active at night than during the day
processing all the info you've collected
so
have some respect
[Music]
the human liver is the busiest organ of
the body
it has over 500 functions and not all of
them are even clear to the scientists
ever wonder why you feel so sleepy after
lunch
well that's because of your circadian
rhythms which have 24 hour cycles
demand you have a nap after seven hours
of being awake
and food just adds to this effect simple
toothache and headache are linked
together thanks to the trigeminal nerve
it goes through the jaw right to the
head so when you feel tooth pain
it usually goes hand in hand with fat in
your head
you lose calories doing literally
anything
a healthy eight-hour sleep for example
makes you lose up to 800 calories
and yes you spend energy even while
eating
like all mammals we have a diving reflex
that slows down
or even stops some bodily functions to
keep us from drowning
that refers to heart rate too a person
can go without food for more than 20
days
however if you don't sleep for 10 days
your body will simply stop functioning
talking about sleep the average person
forgets 90 percent of their dreams
and maybe that's a good thing otherwise
imagine how crazy the world would have
been
the color of your dreams is affected by
the tv you watched as a kid
if you're of an older generation that
watch black and white tv
you'll see monochrome dreams more often
than not
if you're used to color television your
dreams will also be colorful
out of every 10 000 people on earth one
person has their
organs mirrored or reversed from their
usual and customary positions
that is their liver would be larger on
the left side
and the right kidney would be a bit
superior to the left one
speaking of kidneys your left one is a
bit more elevated than your right
that's because the liver is larger on
the right side of your body
people with light colored eyes blue or
green
are better at tolerating pain than those
with dark eyes
scientists think it might be related to
melanin that affects the color of the
eyes
the length of your foot is similar to
that of your forearm
don't believe me go check i'll wait
right here